# 19CproseCorpus

This repository provides a description, abstract feature representations (data), anonymous metadata (data), and python scripts (scripts, based on functions and classes in the preprocessing module) for an exploratory overview of a literary corpus that is currently constructed:

Description: The project corpus has been constructed between 2018 to 2022. It is currently supplemented by the systematically relevant dimension of seriality. What is important and new to this corpus is that it consists up to 30 percent of journal prose fiction texts that have not yet been discussed in literary studies. The texts have been digitized during a preceding post-doctoral project (Habilitation) with the title “Ästhetische und soziale Funktionen der Erzählungen und Novellen im 19. Jahrhundert ("Towards a functional history of nineteenth-century German novellas"). The python code for this project will soon be published in the PyNovellaHistory GitHub repository. The digitization process was funded by the research fund of the Philosophical Faculty of the University of Würzburg. The corpus includes information concerning genre, medial history and seriality. The corpus design meets criteria of balance and representativeness. (1) Canonized texts are not over-represented, and (2) serial and non-serial narrative texts are balanced. This design facilitates addressing research issues as historiographical questions more comprehensively than existing computational genre stylistics. The construction of the corpus was preceded by sighting all research in the media market of the 19th century. Based on qualitative analysis, cluster samples, stratified samples and random samples from clusters have been drawn. Besides the requirements of balance and representativeness, the corpus meets an important further requirement that I developed in (Gattungsgeschichte und ihr Gattungsbegriff am Beispiel der Novellen. In: Journal of Literary Theory 13:2 2019, 227–257). Genre assignments shall be representative of the historical situation in the media market.

Data: 
Corpus data and feature representation: When the corpus is completed and when all metadata and annotations are collected, all texts that are not affected by copyright restrictions will be published as plain texts in this repository. Until then, only abstract feature representations such as document term matrices of the current state are accessible. Metadata: When the corpus is completed, all metadata will be publisehd. Until then, only anonymous metadata with informations about genre and medial context are accessible.

Code: In the code folder, a smple and short python scripts for getting a quick overview over the corpus can be found. In this script functions and classes from the preprocessing module are used. The output_explore_corpus.txt file in the data folder records the properties of the corpus (date: Feb 11 2022).
